2031.230  statement of compliance requires:
"A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item."


To the extent some documents may be produced, but others are unavailable, both a statement of compliance and a statement [*14]  of inability to comply which conform to the Code must be made. 

- D bears the burdern of proving the existence of a valid compensation agreement by the preponderence of evidence. 

- claims at issue are based on unwaivable rights created by California statutes
- Section 2751 is employee protective legislation

- "Under California law, employers and employees may agree that an employee must satisfy certain conditions before earning a sales commission and an employer may recoup an advance if these conditions are not satisfied. However, to rely on those conditions as a basis for recouping an advance paid for a commission, the condition must be clearly expressed and generally must be set forth in writing." Sciborski v. Pacific Bell Directory (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1152, 1171. 

2751 
(a) Whenever an employer enters into a contract of employment with an employee for services to be rendered within this state and the contemplated method of payment of the employee involves commissions, the contract shall be in writing and shall set forth the method by which the commissions shall be computed and paid.

(b) The employer shall give a signed copy of the contract to every employee who is a party thereto and shall obtain a signed receipt for the contract from each employee. In the case of a contract that expires and where the parties nevertheless continue to work under the terms of the expired contract, the contract terms are presumed to remain in full force and effect until the contract is superseded or employment is terminated by either party.

(c) As used in this section, “commissions” has the meaning set forth in Section 204.1. For purposes of this section only, “commission” does not include any of the following:
(1) Short-term productivity bonuses such as are paid to retail clerks.

(2) Temporary, variable incentive payments that increase, but do not decrease, payment under the written contract.

(3) Bonus and profit-sharing plans, unless there has been an offer by the employer to pay a fixed percentage of sales or profits as compensation for work to be performed.

(Amended by Stats. 2012, Ch. 826, Sec. 1. (AB 2675) Effective January 1, 2013.)
